I'm Julie Hyman coming to you from my
home and I want to bring a nick Rick
Newman from his home now we've been
talking a lot about the stimulus right
the proposals and now approved bill
coming to us from Congress can you give
us more details on what exactly that
plan entails and what its gonna do for
people and how quickly it goes into
effect yeah we've got a lot of stimulus
bills to keep track of here so the one
that President Trump signed yesterday
this is a fairly limited stimulus bill
this is not the checks being mailed out
to everybody we're not quite there yet
what this would do would provide some
funding so that people whose companies
do not provide two weeks of sick leave
or emergency leave there would be some
funding for that there's also funding to
cover the cost of coronavirus tests for
people who get them and don't have
coverage through insurance or something
like that
so President Trump has signed up but
that is about a hundred billion dollars
worth of stimulus and this much bigger
bill that's coming probably within a
couple of weeks could be easily one
trillion dollars and we're hearing
perhaps even now two trillion or three
trillion this is the this would include
a lot of different things similar to
that big bailout bill back in February
of 2009 one of the things would be the
checks that go out to people probably in
two different batches one in April and
May there's certainly going to be some
help for companies at the briefing today
somebody asked President Trump does he
support the idea of having prohibitions
in there so that companies that get aid
from the government at a taxpayer
bailout cannot turn around and you you
know go and give executives bonuses or
do share buybacks and he did say he
supports that idea so I think we're
gonna see across the board support for
that I think that means maybe we will
see better bailouts this time around
than we saw back in 2009 yeah I we all
remember the AIG bailout and I was there
is might we see the potential for
Treasury the US government you know the
Federal Reserve you would need some act
of Congress to own stock in companies is
that potentially part of this package
that's being negotiated well that's the
template
from 2008 and 2009 I mean the government
took ownership in some companies perhaps
one of the best-known examples was
General Motors when GM declared
bankruptcy
the US Treasury became a part owner of
General Motors I believe the Canadian
government did as well that did not work
out so well for the government the
government actually lost money on that
deal but when the government takes an
ownership stake that is a way of the
government having a say in what happens
next and then you have to negotiate well
to what extent does does the government
actually put people on the board of
directors I mean this was contentious
with the GM bailout in the Treasury
Department basically got out of that
deal after a couple of years because
they said this is back in the Obama
administration we really don't be
wanting to tell GM how to run their
business we would prefer to get our
money back
but we'd rather just get out of this
deal so there are a lot of things to be
negotiated there but one of the things
that happens if the government actually
takes an ownership stake is you dilute
the the shares of the existing
shareholders and in some ways that is
concede argue that that's appropriate
because these government these sorry
these companies they are getting
taxpayer bailouts you do want to be
careful that you're really helping the
people who need it most and the
shareholders generally are not the
people who need it most shareholders
tend to be wealthier Americans obviously
so these are many of the intricacies
that they're still gonna have to work
out and Adam you're right most of this
does require congressional legislation
and Rick with that Treasury proposal I
know a hundred fifty billion dollars as
of now is allocated to other essential
sectors critical sectors outside of
Airlines let's think about this right
the restaurant industry has asked for
150 billion dollars itself the hotel
industry has asked for the same around I
think 145 so if you think about how are
you gonna rank these industries in terms
of importance in our society that's
exactly right and in in a way smaller
businesses are collectively more
important than bigger businesses I don't
have the stats at my at my disposal
right here but smaller businesses you
know companies with 500 employees are
fewer these are not
S&P 500 companies the smaller businesses
and employ a majority of Americans in in
some ways they're much they're from
they're more fragile I mean they are you
know they have you know less cash
reserves and they rely on monthly or
even daily cash flow to keep operating
so again there there is a template for
this that goes back to 2008 and 2009 and
there it's the whole alphabet soup of
programs some are run by the Treasury
some are run by the feds some of them
are on in combination but you need to
have a way for companies to access
government lending facilities and
hopefully I mean we're getting some of
that already but it's it's complicated
and I actually think Stephen venusian
the Treasury secretary he's been a
little shaky up till now but he actually
seems to be doing a good job he does
seem like he gets the urgency of this
and he is a banker I mean he owned a
bank before he became Treasury secretary
so at least he understands this and
there are a lot of professionals at the
Fed and there's a lot of case history
for how to do this from 2008 and 2009 so
that is a you know a possible note for
optimism yeah Rick Dan here I was just
gonna chime in and say I'm glad you
mentioned that the small businesses are
arguably more important at this time you
know we've already been hearing for a
week about the idea of bailing out the
airlines boeing is pushing for it and
some have you even mentioned bailing out
the cruise lines which boy that doesn't
seem imperative right now but it's the
small businesses that I think we should
really be concerned about in focused on
everyone has mentioned and of course the
restaurants and and smaller restaurant
chains driven independent restaurants we
had a great restaurant industry analyst
on our airwaves earlier today talking
about you know a lot of these companies
are just gonna go under you know no they
can't survive even just two months of
brutal losses much less pay their
employees during this time but not only
restaurants I mean the number of
industries and corners of the economy
that this hits I keep thinking of gig
workers entrepreneurs startup workers
anyone that is in an independent place
that doesn't have any kind of big
organization backing them boy I hope the
government thinks of those organizations
and those companies and that part of the
economy and I think that's happening we
are seeing a lot of pressure from
it started with Democrats but I think
Republicans have to get on board here
that these have to these bailouts have
to bail out Main Street first and
companies second I mean that was the
biggest complaint about the 2008 and
2009 bailouts that the idea was if you
if Washington saves the company then the
company will save the jobs and that
didn't happen it took it took more than
six years to get all the jobs back we
lost longest since what since the Great
Depression so that's why you're hearing
a lot of talk about how do we help the
workers first it's complicated and you
know we have many more gig workers than
we had than we had during the last set
of bailouts in the last recession 11
years ago so those are the so-called
1099s the independent contractors and
that is one of the reasons economists
want to get money just give those people
cash right away but if you think about
it if you're an individual in your 20s
or 30s in your new bird driver and you
get $1,000 for the government how long
does that tide you over it helps but
it's not gonna read for six months so
yeah a business owner that money doesn't
necessarily keep your doors open hey
investors Zach Guzman here are you
interested in learning more about the
markets and getting the latest financial
news well then click right here to
subscribe to our Yahoo Finance youtube
channel get the latest up-to-the-minute
market analysis big interviews in the
world of finance and information on how
to manage your money every day wherever
you are